Point in my life where I hand on heart thought I
was gonna end up in a padded room.
That's how bad.
It was.
But it's fascinating that you're saying that setting goals and setting your mind
on things and hard training is what's set you back on track. And now I,
I don't know what your, like when there's no one in front of you,
but standing here in front of you right now, I would say this is a, a healthy,
vibrant guy, a.
Hundred percent. I've never felt better. Mentally strong, physically.
I've training hard. I feel fit as a fiddle. You know, I,
I wouldn't be here if I was anything wrong with.
Me,
but that's fascinating that most people think that to come back from a mental
health issue like yours, you need psychiatric care and you need medication.
And you are saying you did it with setting goals and hard work.
And the biggest thing we're missing here is I didn't,
I didn't do it with doctors and, um, all them type of things.
I Don it was something way more powerful. God.
So your faith and your belief.
Me faith and belief that God would make me better. Made me better.
Almost like somebody who don't have any faith will think, oh,
this this nonsense or whatever, but.
I'm living proof. Well, if you believe in something, yeah. I mean,
just like you were talking about believing in pills that don't do anything.
Belief is a powerful thing. Whether who knows what's behind that belief,
but what you saying is so powerful that you just,
by virtue of changing the way you think about things, setting goals,
working hard,
you lifted yourself out of the worst depression of your life to the point where
you were suicidal a hundred.
Percent. And I never ever went back to that from this day to that.
And it's been, it's been one over 12 months.
That's pretty amazing. I mean, it's just,
that's an amazing thing for people to hear because there's a lot of people that
rely heavily on antidepressants and medication.
And they think that is the only way for them to be happy.
And for them to be not suicidal, not depressed, they need that medication.
And for them to hear what you are saying, I think is a very power,
powerful thing. It.
Is, but I'm no doctor.
I'm not gonna tell people to Chuck away your pills and right. And pray. Right.
But it, it doesn't do any harm. What I'm seeing, give it a whirl, give it a try.
It can't hurt. You set yourself some goals, think positive and, uh, crack on,
do a bit of training.
So from, from accomplishing your ultimate at goal beating CLE,
go becoming the heavyweight champion and then falling into this deep funk.
Do you think you had to go through all this to come back again?
I think so. Yeah. I believe I was being tested to, to,
to see what type of man I was and what type of character I had. And, you know,
even before the depression, I didn't appreciate the nothing.
Nothing was value to me. So even something I'd worked hard for,
if I'd worked hard and, and saved up for a car, just say for five minutes,
they'd be okay. But then I wouldn't want it anymore. It was a piece of.
So nothing mattered to me. I didn't value anything,
anything that I had and I worked hard for and everyone knows like,
what I have is blood money because I pay for him in face and my body gets
punched to pieces for what I have.
So you'd think I'd appreciate things more than the next month,
but I didn't appreciate nothing. Didn't appreciate anything.
Anything I door achieved, even world championships,
anything I thought is that it is.
This your whole life or something like this. Yeah.
So I believe I was taught.
I was put down this road and I had to suffer all these things so I could
understand when I add things good. Like today,
I'm happy that I'm breathing fresh air, that I'm, I'm sat here in a mental,
mentally stable way of thinking.
I'm happy that I can go out and enjoy a dinner and just be normal,
whatever that is. Mm that's. What I'm happy for.
I'm one of the most, probably the most unique people you'll ever meet. I'm not,
I'm not orientated by I material things and, and all that sort of stuff.
It means nothing to me. I don't even care about glory and honor,
I don't care about legacies. I don't care about winning titles or, or,
or medals doesn't matter.
But when I set my mind to doing something, I'll do it.
And every single time I've ever set my mind to anything, I've done it.
Even unthinkable things. Have I set my mind to I've done it.
I don't care about wanting what Deontay Wilder has in his position or whatever.
I only wanna beat him in a fight. That's it?
You only wanna beat him because it's so difficult.
Not just that, because that's what I wanna do. I that's your goal set me goal,
be eating Deontay Wilder. So do you.
Think that that's the,
your future is just setting goals and constantly trying to achieve those goals?
I think, I think I've got a bigger purpose now than boxing.
Boxing's a sport and something I've made a living out of for a long time,
but I think there's a bigger picture. Bigger than any, any winning,
any titles bigger than winning any, any fights number of fights?
I think my call in Karl in life is to spread the word on this, this disease,
a silent killer,
a a killer that's so ferocious that you can't see it or feel it
from the outside. You could be suffering right now,
but I won't be able to see it because I can't see into your mind.
You it's just so unusual that someone has that solution,
that hard work dedication and setting goals is what lifted you out of the
depression and made you appreciate life and made you appreciate all the,
all the aspects of it. Yeah.
I appreciate everything. You know, spending time with me family,
I took it for granted before far. I spent time with time family. Anytime I want,
I, I couldn't put into words what I went through, but let me just say,
I wouldn't wish what I went through on my worst enemy.
Not that I have any enemies, but if I did,
I wouldn't wish on a soul because I know how hard it is.
And I know a lesser person,
maybe not I've got through and maybe not a man without faith may would've took
his own life.
Now that you have gotten through,
do you feel like you have the solution now to navigate the rest of your life?
Yeah.
I know. I know the secret for me and everybody's will be different,
but if I train every day and I'm stay in shape, then I'll be happy forever.
The time I stop training, the time I balloon back up again,
the time it all goes wrong again.
And I know that if you know something in your life, then you don't do it.
And that's what I know. It's like a diabetic. If he goes and eat a lot of sugar,
he know's gonna make him ill. So he don't do it.
So as long as I always stay by them guidelines, I know I'm gonna be all right.
And that's.
How she wrote. So as long as you, well, that's the other thing too, right?
The alcohol and the drugs exacerbate, any sort of bad state that you have,
because you're gonna feel like. Yeah.
I'm not T total. Right? I I've had a drink since I've been back. I been I've,
I've been out with the lads, had drinks, whatever.
And, but your goals are still set and strong. Yeah. But long as,
so that's really what it is. Yeah. So from now on,
you just have to continually set goals in your life, set goals.
Whatever them goals might be. They don't have to be massive goals,
but they can be any, anything, really, anything that I want do,
or I wanna achieve, or I wanna go someplace or whatever. Then I,
I work towards it and set myself a goal.
It's almost like a little treat or whatever.
It's fascinating because no one's ever really connected that. I mean, people,
people have made that connection in terms of like, when they study happy people,
one of the things they find about happy people is their goal oriented people.
They set goals think come with those people,
but nobody's ever really set that as a remedy for
depression and for mental health issues, setting goals, achieving those goals.
That's the key to keep it going.
I believe that's the case. Yeah. After doing quite a lot of research on,
on myself and experiencing it and it, it works for me.
And I find it works for a lot of people. I speak to,
who's got the same problems. I get messages from all,
all over the world from different types of sports people and different type of
people asking for information and, and help and how I,
I got free mine and what I did. And I'm happy to, I'm happy to help.
So if there's anybody out there who's struggling in silence,
which a lot of people are, then I'm always there to help.
If I can.
What's such an impressive of an inspiring message because you're doing it
without medication. You're doing it just through positive thinking,
through goal setting and through healthy living. That's.
Right. And I believe it's the best, best way to live. Anyway.
Best way to live is fit and healthy.
When you're outta shape and you feel unfit and you feel terrible,
then nothing's gonna go right for you. But if you feel fit.
You feel good. It's almost natural to feel depressed.
If your body is literally depressed.
If every time I go to the gym and do a little bit of training,
whether it be a lot or little, I always go out of a shower.
And I think I feel great. Now, training sets off an endorphin in your blood.
It makes you happy. Contentment is a word we're looking for contentment.
Doesn't come through material stuff, jobs, positions, fame,
glory, money, anything contentment.
You'll never find contentment while you're chasing that sort of stuff.
My message would be
look around yourself and be thankful for what you do have today.
Don't look for what you don't have. You know, you gotta be,
be happy with who you are and why is man once said,
you gotta know yourself before. You can know anybody else through yourself,
try and understand yourself. Think what makes you happy and do that.
And what makes you sad? Don't do it. It's very simple, right? If so,
makes me sad. No, then I'm not gonna do it anymore. Take that on me life.
I don't want that. And if you know,
something's gonna lead you down the wrong way in a wrong puff in life,
don't do it simple, very simple set yourself, small time goals,
long time goals, achieve them and move on. Now, how.
Long did it take you for you to lose the weight?
I started training in November, 2017,
400 pounds. Yeah. And I can't run.
I got down to 275 pounds in my first fight back
in June. And by August in my second fight back,
I was 258 pounds. And I've,
I've maintained that weight 2 60, 2 58. That's your ideal weight? Yeah.
From there to now.
So, um, what did you do differently with your diet? Like what did you.
I was eating a lot on drinking a lot. I just stopped all that sort of stuff.
Like my weight wasn't put on through being in a normal person, eating.
Normally my weight was put on through excessive drinking of Larga.
There's like 500 calories in one pint of beer and I'd go out and I'd drink a
minimal of 18 of those beers. <laugh>
followed by whiskey vodka, everything else.
Then I'd stop off on no way. And I'd says kebabs chocolates.
It was excessive living. If you put your body through torture,
you can't expect to feel great. Right?
So what I did was I started eating outfit feet, not drinking,
and that was it really.
I just trained on a daily basis for a long period of time. And,
and at sensible and clean have caught everything out.
But if you want faster results, then, then you do it. No.